feat(nextjs): Add Next.js docs (#3319)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/manual-setup/manual-config.mdx

---
title: Manual Configuration
sidebar_order: 1
description: "Learn about manual configuration of the SDK."
---

If you can’t (or prefer not to) run the [setup step](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#setup), you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.

> ## Extend the usage of webpack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Extend Default Webpack Usage for Source Maps
```

---
title: Manual Configuration
sidebar_order: 1
description: "Learn about manual configuration of the SDK."
---

If you can’t (or prefer not to) run the [setup step](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#setup), you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.

## Set Initialization Config Files

To initialize the SDK you must perform the initialization for both client and server in `sentry.client.config.js` and `sentry.server.config.js` respectively, in the root directory of your project.

> Both files must initialize Sentry as in other SDKs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both files must initialize Sentry:
```

```javascript {filename:sentry.client.config.js}
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/nextjs';

const SENTRY_DSN = process.env.SENTRY_DSN || process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN;

Sentry.init({

>   dsn: SENTRY_DSN || "___DSN___",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  dsn: SENTRY_DSN || "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
```

  // ...
});
```

And the server:

```javascript {filename:sentry.server.config.js}
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/nextjs';

const SENTRY_DSN = process.env.SENTRY_DSN || process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN;

Sentry.init({

>   dsn: SENTRY_DSN || "___DSN___",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  dsn: SENTRY_DSN || "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
```

  // ...
});
```

## Extend Default Webpack Usage for Source Maps

> You must extend the default Next.js’s usage of webpack to generate Source Maps. This can be done by the `next.config.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must extend the default Next.js’s usage of Webpack to generate source maps in `next.config.js`:
```

```javascript {filename:next.config.js}
// This file sets a custom webpack configuration to use your Next.js app
// with Sentry.
// https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/introduction
// https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/

const {
  VERCEL_GITHUB_COMMIT_SHA,
  VERCEL_GITLAB_COMMIT_SHA,
  VERCEL_BITBUCKET_COMMIT_SHA,
  SENTRY_URL,
  SENTRY_ORG,
  SENTRY_PROJECT,
  SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
} = process.env;

const COMMIT_SHA =
  VERCEL_GITHUB_COMMIT_SHA ||
  VERCEL_GITLAB_COMMIT_SHA ||
  VERCEL_BITBUCKET_COMMIT_SHA;

const SentryWebpackPlugin = require('@sentry/webpack-plugin');
const fs = require('fs');

> // We require this to fake that our plugin matches the next version

Author: Yes.

> // We require this to fake that our plugin matches the next version

Reviewer 3: Clarified both the comment and the method name.

    const packagePlugin = require(packagePluginPath);
    packagePlugin.version = packageJson.dependencies.next;
    fs.writeFileSync(packagePluginPath, JSON.stringify(packagePlugin));
  } else {
    console.error(`Can't find 'next' dependency`);
  }
}
replaceVersion();

module.exports = {
  experimental: { plugins: true },
  plugins: ['@sentry/next-plugin-sentry'],
  productionBrowserSourceMaps: true,
  webpack: (config, { dev }) => {
    if (!dev) {
      // Enable high-quality source-maps for non-dev builds. See
      // https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/master/errors/improper-devtool.md
      config.devtool = 'source-map';
    }
    config.plugins.push(
      new SentryWebpackPlugin({
        release: COMMIT_SHA,
        url: SENTRY_URL,
        org: SENTRY_ORG,
        project: SENTRY_PROJECT,
        authToken: SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
        configFile: 'sentry.properties',
        // Webpack specific configuration
        stripPrefix: ['webpack://_N_E/'],
        urlPrefix: `~/_next`,
        include: '.next/',
        ignore: ['node_modules', 'webpack.config.js'],
        dryRun: dev,
      }),
    );
    return config;
  },
};
```

<Note>

> Set up the `SentryWebpackPlugin` as the last running plugin; otherwise, the resulting source maps the plugin receives may not be the final one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up the `SentryWebpackPlugin` as the final plugin to run; otherwise, the source maps the plugin receives may not be final.
```
